Hi everyone. Apologies for the delay
here. Uh we're just waiting for our
speaker to arrive. Um I hope you're all
having a good week. Congratulations to
all of you who just submitted the
midsubmission checkpoint. Um we are over
halfway through the hackathon now. So I
hope you've been enjoying your build so
far. Um and the purpose of the session
today and in the next couple of weeks is
we want you to start switching your
mindset to thinking about the final
submissions. Um, so that is thinking
about what you're going to submit,
thinking about how you're going to pitch
your project, um, and starting to
prepare your materials. Um,
I have just got a message from our
speaker that he's joined, but I can't
see him. Um, Manu.
Oh, yes. No, I can see Manny now. Hi.
Uh, you are muted.
>> There you go.
>> Nice. Um, I ah, now I can see you.
Amazing. Um, as I was just saying to
everyone, um, congratulations for making
it to the midway point of the hackathon.
Um, and now we're switching mindsets,
um, into thinking about how we're going
to present our projects. Um, and that
takes us to the session we have today.
We have Emanuel uh from validation club
with us who is going to deliver deliver
um what was last time an inspiring
workshop on how to pitch your product.
Um so hopefully everyone finds it really
useful today uh as we start thinking
about um what we're going to submit and
how we're going to present our project.
Um so we can see your screen. It's
looking good. Um I will hand over
straight away to you.
>> Okay. Thank you. Let me go full screen.
Can you see everything in full screen?
Yes, it's looking good.
>> Okay. And I apologize. I don't know if
the sound quality is good enough. U
fortunately, I'm at the um at a trade
show or conference this week uh in at
Consensus in Miami, so there may be a
bit of background noise, so apologies in
advance. Um but really excited to be
here today. Um so today we'll talk a
little bit about developing your pitch
for for the Messo Hackathon. Uh quick
intro about me. Uh so Emmanuel Marshall,
I'm a chief revenue officer for
validation cloud. Uh feel free to
connect with me on the telegram. I
dropped my link there. Um and I work for
a company called validation cloud. Uh we
are a an institutional grade
infrastructure provider and we also do
onchain intelligence and most
specifically with MEO. We've been a
partner of MESO from day one as a launch
validator, Genesis validator and RPC uh
partner and so we offer uh test net and
mainet RPCs for MSO uh which you're very
free to use uh for the competition.
Uh okay so today we're talking about MEO
uh for me Messo is very exciting because
it uh it brings Bitcoin a lot of utility
for Bitcoin in everyday finance. Uh the
hackathon really focus on this between
uh making Bitcoin useful making the MEO
token useful for the ecos or MUSD as
well. Um
so let's talk about the the hackathon.
For me, um, hackathons are a great
opportunity for you to get involved in
the new ecos,
uh, and get exposed to, uh, people who
are going to decide if your ideas,
uh, are are worth investing in. Um
and and there might be a little bit of a
well always a bit of a a danger with
hackathon like for me an ID there's a
lot of ideas around but uh what
distinguish a good idea from just an ID
is one that uh has business clarity or
that can make it into a valuable
business. So the best technical solution
is not always the best idea.
And conveying
that your ID carries business uh
business potential is to me the most
important when you're going to pitch
what you've developed during the
hackathon to the judges.
And the way to pitch these ideas uh with
business meaning
is uh through a story. People like
story. We're all we connect a lot more
with stories than rather than factual
things. And so, uh, how you're going to
articulate your idea during the pitch
and how you're going to tell that story
is going to what is going to be what
differentiate you from the other
competitors. So, today we'll talk a bit
about this and I'm going to try to give
you some insight as to how to make a
good story uh that will resonate with
the judge.
Um
as far as the measure competition
there's different criteria that they're
using for the evaluation. Uh some of it
is about the integration, some of it
about the technical implementation.
We'll focus very much on the business
viability of your ID today. Um not and
not the UX. So uh that's what I'm going
to focus on.
So, you you're going to have a a pitch
um
a pitch to do. Uh make sure you spend
time preparing for it. Make sure you
rehearse it. Not one time, not 10 time,
but if you can do it like 50, 100 time,
it needs to come out like a flawless
story that you leave, that you embrace.
Uh, it needs to come out
like something connect with instantly.
And so try your pitch with other people.
Try your pitch with people you're
friendly with. Uh, but where you feel
maybe, you know, not entirely
comfortable telling them the pitch. I
think that will be the best way to
testing if your pitch is resonate well,
is clear enough, is impactful, convey a
story that people want to engage with.
Um so that's uh I would I would
definitely encourage you to spend a lot
of time uh and carving out some time for
for that pitch. We know that during a
hackathon, you know, a lot of time is
being spent on building and thinking
that just building the prototype is is
going to be enough. But uh and often I
see people that like forget to spend
time articulating their pitch and
unfortunately all the stuff they build
come to nothing because they were not
able to convey white matter and for who.
So don't fall into the trap of uh you
know if you're a technical team and
you're great at building
uh make sure you don't forget that you
also need to be great at uh creating
that idea and conveying what you've
built and why it matters. It's all about
the value.
So what do you want in your pitch?
Uh there's tons of resources online you
can or you can code it or GPT it. You
can have tons of ideas on how to do
pitch. Uh
people
often judges will have seen a lot of
different pitches and therefore they
will be used to a certain structure of a
pitch. And so what you want is what's
shown on this slide. introduction about
what you're doing about your team
uh for me is one of the most important
thing. People invest and bet in teams
not in technical ideas. Often we know
that the initial idea may not be the
right one and you're going to pivot and
so your ability to build the next ID is
going to be down to the team. So your
team, what makes you unique? Uh why it
matters to you and why you're the right
person to u to uh to trust or to uh bid
on is is critical and so that needs to
come out very quickly clearly.
Then you have what problem are you
solving? Is this an important problem?
Is this a very large problem or is this
a small one? Um what's the opportunity?
Uh, and then you can talk about what you
build the product demo. Um,
where does it fit in the market? Are you
alone doing this or is there someone
else already doing this? That's
important. It's always good to have
competition. You shouldn't be saying
that you're the only one in the world to
do this because if you're the only one,
maybe it's not a not something that's
interesting or maybe it is, but uh don't
be afraid of mentioning that someone
else is doing something like you're
doing. Um, and then talking about the
traction, if you've just started, you're
not going to have traction. But if you
already started and uh launching that
ID, you're probably going to have some
traction. And so sharing what you have
done or the early signs of adoptions or
uh is going to be essential uh and you
should articulate this uh really well
and be clear at the end what you're
asking for uh which could be
collections, resources, investment.
there's lots of different things that
you may want uh for moving your ID
forward and so it's really important
that you're explicit about this not
assume that people will know. So these
are typically the things in a pitch. Um
but when you're on the on the pitch at
the end of the hackathon you're not
going to have 20 minutes to go over all
these things. It's going to be very
short. So you can shrink that uh down to
with your team what's the problem,
what's the solution, what's the value
and and if you cover these four things
really well really uh clearly but um in
a very impactful way uh I think you get
a a winning recipe or chance of like
making an impact and having people
remind remember remember what you've
done who you are and why it matters.
So team, what makes you unique
and you can draw back into your
experience and we'll cover all these
points in the in the rest of the the
presentation today.
Problem and opportunity. What is the
pain? Are you have you experienced
something that uh that I really need to
be solving or is this something entirely
new because you've noticed a gap in the
market? It's not a pain yet, but you can
think the market will need that in the
future. Then you can explain what you've
built and why it matters. Uh putting
numbers or the size of the market you
can impact is always good.
Uh the way to present this,
you can do it uh very visually. Some
people are very visual in the way they
consume information. Uh that's my case.
I love to see maps or like diagrams.
Some people prefer to see text. Uh for
me, text doesn't work. Uh I get lost in
text. Um and so visual
may work. But think about how you
present this.
And uh I think one rule is if you
present slides, think every word matter.
Think every word cost you $100. And so
if you think that you're going to put
less words on your slide and probably
try to be more impactful with the words.
So choose carefully what you say, what
you put on the slides.
So let's talk first about the team.
Um if you're a team of uh just a few
people, mention every key team member on
the slide. Show picture. Show who you
are. Explain your background and why
you're the best team. Try to convey in
that team slide,
why you're the right team to be invest
uh why why the judges should bet on you.
Uh so demonstrate what you've done. If
you've done if you get background
experience in crypto, mention what it
is. If you worked in crypto companies,
mention what they are. If you do
something with AI, explain some project
that you've done with AI. uh if you've
experienced I don't know uh something
about uh uh your experience that uh
makes what you're building relevant
that can draw back to your childhood.
Mention it. Try to that's your
opportunity to connect on a personal
level with the judges. So don't be shy.
Bring out what uh what's really unique
about you
um and make it personal. For me that's
uh that's really important. Uh often
when I vest uh or when I look at the vet
different teams for investment 50% of my
choice is purely based on the people
that I meet and how I can connect with
them and whether I think I'm the right
person for them to help them. So make
sure you you know demonstrate that.
Second thing is uh what is the problem?
So, why should I care? Um, and and to me
that there's a lot of uh in crypto, but
in every industry, there's a lot of
people that think, "Hey, I get an idea.
I'm going to build something." And then
afterward, they're like, "Oh, I need to
find a problem for that idea." Uh, so
start the other way around. Try to
really articulate
why this is really important, why it
matter, what is the problem? If you can
articulate what that problem is and why
it's big, uh, then you're going to be
able to set the judges on a path for
okay, now I understand the size of the
problem. I'm I'm already waiting for
what is the solution. So they are you've
already set them down the path of uh uh
choosing you. So explain the problem,
explain its size. uh the size of the
prime could be
uh you know market size in billions of
dollars. It could be a missed
opportunity for that impacts millions of
people. Um
it can be uh something about specific
regions of the world or country that
could be helped uh with the solution
that you're designing. uh whatever
dimension you can use to quantify the
problem and make it uh very specific uh
I think would be useful now don't go
start listing 20 different problems
stick to one just one or maybe one and
two but no more so make it impactful
make it big uh and and very simple to
understand
don't assume people are going to have
like the whole technical background that
you have so make sure that uh you know
you can explain it in simple word that
maybe a non-crypto person can
understand.
Uh third so let's talk about your
solution. So now you get the team set up
you get the problem and the the size of
the problem that's articulated.
Uh now it's your time to say here's what
we've done here's what we've done during
the the hackathon.
Um and so there's simple ways of
just framing what you said. For example,
you can use the the format we've built
this project
um that helps this type of users achieve
this with MUSC or with Bitcoin or with
MEO. Uh so a simple sentence like your
solution should fit and and what it
solved should fit into a simple
sentence.
might want to make it uh a little bit
visual. Again, you know, some judges
will respond better to text or voice.
Some people will be more visual. They
will like to see
a diagram or like an image that
articulate what is your solution or like
a screenshot of your solution or maybe
like a a live registered, you know, GIF
uh that will show the your product live.
Uh that could be impactful.
Uh but so it's important to very simply
describe what you do one sentence. Try
to do it in one sentence. To me that's
always a a good way to know if you
capture the essence of what you've done
and why it matters and what's it doing
for the users
uh in a simple way. Um and another way
of uh thinking about this is start from
the end user point of view.
Don't explain your technical solution.
That doesn't matter. Explain what it
does for the end user. So it allow an
end user to send a remittance name USD
via WhatsApp. That's very clear. You've
built the magic underneath under the
hood and the judge don't necessarily
need to know that at that stage they all
need need to understand how users end
users are going to be impacted and
helped.
That's for describing the solution. Demo
time if you have time to demo uh keep it
short. Attention span is is you know
very short today. The average in fact
the average attention span is now down
to two second. Used to be 10 second with
when Tik Tok came up. It's down to two
second now. So keep your demo for like
very short very impactful. Pick only the
most important element of your demo. you
don't need to show all the things that
you've designed and built. Um
that's uh I think that's you know less
is more. Choose the the most impactful
the stuff that articulate the use case
you uh presented just uh in the previous
slide uh and focus on how it impact the
end user. Again connect to the value. If
you talk about users, their value, how
it solved their problem,
uh you have much more chance of um
making an impact on the judges rather
than talking about how you've built all
these things technically.
Um
and and now with CL I last time I
presented this was six months ago. uh
the ability to build stuff was six
months ago was um yeah still required a
bit of effort. Now if you you can put it
in very little amount of time. So uh
you're more likely to have like fully
functional uh solutions or mockups
uh and so judges are going to be fully
aware of that. So that for me there's
less difference you
further reinforce that the user outcome
is what matters rather the rather than
the technical progress to build uh your
solution.
It's more about understanding the pain
and how you're solving that pain and and
the impact and the scale of what you're
solving rather than the solution that
you build.
Um, and if you do a demo, make sure you
rehearse it 20, 30, 40, 50 different
times. Make sure that uh it can run
without uh connectivity or if your
computer is slow like test in so many
different ways that you know it's always
going to go well on the on the time
because you only have like 30 60 seconds
to do it.
Okay. Um, so we've done the team, we've
done the problem, we've done the
solution, we've done the demo.
Now it's your time to really uh expand
and impress the judge on why it matters
and demonstrate that you have a solid
understanding of how you're going to
move forward with this. Uh, so who are
the users? Be very clear about the
users. It's not everybody. It's never
everybody.
uh you're targeting and it's better to
say initially we're going to target that
very specific group of users when we
talk about ideal customer profile ICB
but uh in my opinion it's much better to
say we identify this group and that's
what that's the group we're starting
with we know these other groups are
going to be in scope of our solution in
the future but we think this group is
the better group to start with
and you can also articulate is uh with
what you're going to do after the
hackathon. Do you already have a have
you already started thinking beyond the
hackathon for what you're doing and in
which way you organize yourself to maybe
start testing your solution in the
market or maybe maybe you're more
advanced and you already have an ability
to generate some revenue in which case
where you're going to generate this
revenue how you can if you have an idea
already I think it's worth articulating
to the judges but again very simple
terms
Um but don't fall into the trap of
saying we can solve everything for all
users or we're going to enable a billion
users. Um for me that that fits at the
start but not at the business use case.
Business use case is what's going to
happen in the next 12 months
and how how you're going to make this a
reality.
And in 12 months you're not going to go
after a billion users. You're going to
go after a certain group of users. very
tactical but very impactful.
And so that brings us to you know this
last part the business impact. Um not
only you can talk about the target
audience but remember to bring it back
to why it matters for the miso
ecosystem.
Why should the miso ecosystem and the
miso foundation invest in you? uh
because your solution can be very good
for the audience but uh also need to you
know bring value back to the ecosystem.
So try to articulate this simply
and
wrap everything at the end of your
pitch. Make sure you get one sentence
that wrap it all. Um
and and like everything you said in the
last three or four minutes or whatever
the length of your pitch is
do a final sentence which could be the
sentence you started your pitch with
said we're solving XYZ with and then you
finish your pitch with and this is what
we're doing. we're solving XYZ. And so
you bring it back to the judges. Anchor
your message in the judg's mind as far
as uh what you've done and why it
matters.
Uh remember, it's all about the story
and people will remember far more what
you're doing if you articulate it around
a story rather than demonstrating
technical progress.
Okay. So I want to uh stop there and see
if we have um
the questions now for and and we can do
this a lot more interactive.
>> Thank you very much for delivering that
session. Um extremely extremely useful
uh for the hackers at the stage that
we're all at. Um I had a question uh
before I open up the floor. Um if anyone
has questions, now's your opportunity to
type in chat um whilst I ask this. you
did mention um in the in the uh deck now
um the kind of rapid advancement of AI
even since the last time you delivered
this session which was in the the messo
hackathon um back in 2025
of the kind of steps that you've walked
us through today what do you think what
would you personally trust AI with
supporting with and what do you think
the hackers still need to put the human
touch on they shouldn't hand over to AI
um because it will kind of put them at a
disadvantage or it won't do the task
that way that it should be done. Do do
you see what I mean?
>> Uh yeah. Yeah. I think that's a that's a
very good question and u and I think
we're I mean um
pace with AI is uh is going so fast that
we're iterating I mean we're iterating
the way we're doing business all the
time and and the way we're developing or
the way we're going to market and like
in my day-to-day job there's not a day
where I don't use AI in like three five
different ways.
um I think the you know ability to build
uh
has become less of a differentiator
because AI can generate so much code uh
or like developers need to embrace AI. I
don't I don't see a world where like
humans are going to be completely
removed from the loop. Um
I think the go to market and your market
research
please do use AI to test your ideas like
go use code use any AI that you want and
test your pitch with AI and ask the AI
to challenge you on your pitch ask the
to challenge you on the idea that you
have like there's so much like real time
feedback you can get uh and that's
certainly gamechanging so
uh don't come to the to the pitch
without having testing you know uh what
you're doing the ideas that you have the
market assumption without sending it to
the AI and see what it says um for me
that the one thing that emphasize even
more is the team composition
at the end of the day I'm investing I'm
not investing in an AI like if I were a
judge or or if I'm an investor I'm not
going to invest in AI I'm investing in
people that know how to use AI to do
And so the team composition,
the way you articulated, who you are,
your background, why it matters to you,
uh if you've already run businesses or
if you already did some projects,
uh signs that show that you are a
standout team, like an outstanding
uh makeup, that the people in your team
make sense together as well.
Um,
and so I think AI can automate
everything but the first first slide
which is who we are.
Um,
so yeah,
>> that's really interesting. So, something
that I've noticed um being around
hackathons a lot and and seeing lots and
lots of submissions um is especially in
the last 8 to 12 months um lots of
websites, lots of presentation decks
have ended up looking basically the
same, indistinguishable because they've
all got very similar design styles. Um
they've all used similar copy. They have
the same sort of tone. What would you
suggest to people to stop them falling
into the hole of kind of looking like
everyone else? How do you make yourself
stand out if everyone is using the same
tools?
>> That's tricky. That's a tricky one. Like
um your personality needs to come out.
So
how to do this? Don't don't fall in the
trap of thinking the AI knows better
than you uh or format better than you.
If you have conviction about certain
things, keep it like if if you think it
should look that way, do it. Even if the
AI say it should be different because
the indeed is going to the in a way
gentrifies
everything all the content makes it look
a little bit the same like Starbucks
everywhere. Um
so don't be afraid of having uh your
style
uh having your take more reflective in
the slide. Uh if you feel strongly about
it, you can test it with AI. Uh and it's
all for me it's often with AI like when
I when I ask it to prepare like for for
example customer
uh like pitches that I prepare for
customers
uh it will generate the things that
looks like vanilla perfect and then I'm
going to start cutting it and put my
style in which is a bit more direct and
that's that's who I have who I am and I
know when I will start interacting with
that customer I will continue in my own
style not the AI style.
So it's important that my pitch,
whatever I'm writing or whatever I'm
presenting is reflective of who I am and
what the future
interaction is going to be. So don't be
afraid of having your own style in it.
>> I like that. And and that also sort of I
guess leans into the focus on the team
is like if that's what's setting you
apart, then your style kind of goes
through that as well. Um, Rahee has
asked what the ideal length for a pitch
presentation is. I'm gonna answer for
the hackathon. Um, because it's three
minutes, but can you talk to us about
um, in sort of beyond hackathons, what
are the kind of expected lengths of
pitches someone might be asked to
deliver and in what kind of
circumstance?
>> Um, I think it depends. Um, and the best
way to know is ask the person.
Like
when I when I pitch like with validation
cloud when when we are offering our
services to a client, I aim for having a
hook in under 15 seconds.
>> So my pitch is no more than 15 seconds.
That's the hook. Once I know I get their
attention, then I can expand on it and
and make sure that I I don't start
boring them. that but 15 second is is
the goal. Uh
and when I send a call outreach email
again it's like three lines because
people don't have the the attention span
to go four lines. Um but if you're in
doubt, go ask the person. That's uh one
of the things that I prefer when people
pitch to me products, companies or
anything.
Uh one of the thing that make them stand
out is if they reach out to me before
the pitch and tell tell me, "Hey, we're
working on our pitch. We'd love some
indication as to what would be the best
format for you."
Uh and so use that tree. That's uh
that's that's a a trick. But
it it does convey two things. One,
you're spending time you're investing
time in preparing your beach. Two,
you're not afraid of reaching out.
Three, you're showing to the other
person, the person that will receive the
beach, that you care about their time.
And so you're automatically creating a
by just doing this, it makes you stand
out from the rest. If you're the one
reaching out and asking, hey, how long
should our pitch be? How much time does
work for you? Is it like 2 minutes, 5
minutes? Uh that gives you an
opportunity to stand out from the rest
and and that's half of the job. So
there's no standard format. Some people
want 1 minute 30 seconds, some people
want 20 minutes.
>> And that um is an interesting point as
well because um just because you have a
3minut pitch for the hackathon um it's
really interesting that you say 15
seconds because if you haven't hooked
the person who's watching your 3minut
pitch within 15 seconds and they lose
interest, you might have presented a
really good 3minut pitch but if they
stop watching 30 seconds in, then they
haven't seen it. Um so that's that's
really interesting. Um so the answer
logistically Rahee for the hackathon is
three minutes. Um but some really good
advice there. Hit them within 15 seconds
with your pitch. Um so that they are
watching and listening carefully um for
the the whole one. Um
>> yeah that's your your opening sentence
needs to be we are we've done this for
that for these users. That's the line
you open with. Then you go through your
beat and then you finish with that same
line and you can close with that same
line. So if you repeated it twice,
uh when you repeat the same things,
it goes in the brain and sticks in the
brain so people are more likely to
remember. So make it short, impactful,
start with this and close with this.
>> Really great advice. Thank you. Um does
anyone else have any questions? Um,
otherwise there's been lots for you to
consider um that I'm hoping uh you'll
all take the time over the next week or
so um as you start preparing uh the
materials that you're going to be
submitting with. Uh for those of you who
joined us halfway through or or after
the the introduction, um congratulations
for making it to the midpoint of the
hackathon. Um now we want you to be
thinking about what materials you're
going to be submitting at the end. So
the purpose of the workshop today um
which we're really grateful to have had
um is was to uh prepare you for the
pitch which is the most important um
piece of submission material that you're
going to be required to submit um in the
hackathon. You still have lots of time
to be thinking about it and producing
it. Um but the workshop today has
hopefully given you a really good
outline um for how to get started and
the things to be thinking about. Um,
thank you everyone for joining us uh on
a Thursday uh and best of luck um for
the rest of the hackathon. We're really
looking forward to the submission
materials um sorry the submissions that
you um share with us uh and seeing the
really cool projects that you've been
building um over the six weeks. I I see
you just put your telegram. I think you
just
>> So yeah, so I say like if anyone wants
to reach out and I'm very happy to to
help any any one of you. So feel free to
to ping me on Telegram.
>> That's really awesome.
>> That's not that's not the right one.
There's a typo Marshall. There you go.
>> I'll I'll put um a message on the
Discord with a link so that there's no
typos. Um perfect. Thank you so much for
joining us. Um we're really really
grateful for you um running this
workshop with us again. Uh I hope that
the pictures that we see in the
hackathon um are uh unbeaten in quality.
Um thank you everyone for joining us and
we'll see you all again very soon.
>> Brilliant. Thank you.
>> Bye everyone. That's all and good luck.